\documentclass[12pt, titlepage]{article}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{tabularx}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{
    colorlinks,
    citecolor=black,
    filecolor=black,
    linkcolor=red,
    urlcolor=blue
}
\usepackage[round]{natbib}
\usepackage{enumitem}

\usepackage{xr}
\externaldocument[SRS-]{../../SRS/SRS}
\newcommand{\rref}[1]{R\ref{#1}}

\newcounter{testnum} %Assumption Number
\newcommand{\tcthetestnum}{TC\thetestnum}
\newcommand{\tcref}[1]{TC\ref{#1}}

\input{../../Comments}

\begin{document}

\title{Software Stability Analysis: System Verification and Validation Plan} 
\author{Brooks MacLachlan}
\date{\today}
	
\maketitle

\pagenumbering{roman}

\section{Revision History}

\begin{tabularx}{\textwidth}{p{3cm}p{2cm}X}
\toprule {\bf Date} & {\bf Version} & {\bf Notes}\\
\midrule
10/10/18 & 1.0 & Initial template fill-ins\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabularx}

~\newpage

\section{Symbols, Abbreviations and Acronyms}
The symbols, abbreviations, and acronyms used in this document include those 
defined in the table below, as well as any defined in the tables found in 
Section \ref{SRS-sec_RefMat} of the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) 
document.
\newline

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.2}
\begin{tabular}{l l} 
  \toprule		
  \textbf{symbol} & \textbf{description}\\
  \midrule 
  MIS & Module Interface Specification\\
  MG & Module Guide\\
  TC & Test Case\\
  VnV & Verification and Validation\\
  \bottomrule
\end{tabular}\\

\newpage

\tableofcontents

\listoftables

\listoffigures

\newpage

\pagenumbering{arabic}

\noindent This document outlines the system verification and validation plan 
for the software. General information regarding the system under test and the 
objectives of the verification and validation activities is provided in Section 
\ref{sec_GenInfo}. Overviews of verification plans for the SRS, design, and 
implementation are given in Section \ref{sec_Plan}, along with a summary of the 
validation plan for the software. Section \ref{sec_System} details specific  
system test cases for verifying the requirements outlined in Section 
\ref{SRS-sec_Reqs} of the SRS. A summary of planned static verification 
activities can be found in Section \ref{sec_Static} of this document.

\section{General Information} \label{sec_GenInfo}

\subsection{Summary}

\noindent The software being tested is the Slope Stability Analysis Program 
(SSP). Based on user-defined slope geometry and material properties, SSP 
determines the critical slip surface of the given slope, the corresponding 
factor of safety, and interslice normal and shear forces along the critical 
slip surface.

\subsection{Objectives}

\noindent The purpose of the verification and validation activities is to 
confirm that SSP exhibits desired software qualities. The primary objective is 
to build confidence in the correctness of the software. The tests described in 
this document cannot definitively prove correctness, but they can build 
confidence by verifying that the software is correct for the cases covered by 
tests. Another important quality to be verified is the understandability or 
usability of the software.

\subsection{References}

\noindent Extensive information about the purpose and requirements of SSP can 
be found in the SRS document. This System VnV Plan is complemented by the 
System VnV Report, where the results of the tests planned in this document are 
discussed. For more details on test cases specific to the implementation of 
SSP, consult the Unit VnV Plan document. The latest documentation for SSP can 
be found 
on GitHub, at \newline 
\href{https://github.com/smiths/caseStudies/tree/master/CaseStudies/ssp}{https://github.com/smiths/caseStudies/tree/master/CaseStudies/ssp}.

\section{Plan} \label{sec_Plan}
	
\subsection{Verification and Validation Team}

\noindent Brooks MacLachlan is responsible for the verification and validation 
of SSP, though input from various students and the professor, Dr. Spencer 
Smith, of CAS 741 will also contribute.

\subsection{SRS Verification Plan}

\noindent SRS verification will be carried out by reviews. Brooks MacLachlan 
will extensively review the SRS, including reviewing the sources to confirm 
that the theories and models described in the SRS are correct. Any issues 
identified during this review will be fixed immediately by Brooks MacLachlan. 
This review will be followed up by additional reviews by Dr. Spencer Smith and 
Vajiheh Motamer, a student in CAS 741. Any issues identified by these reviewers 
will be recorded through the issue tracker on GitHub, and addressed by Brooks 
MacLachlan. Brooks MacLachlan will also informally present the SRS to the 
entire class of CAS 741. During this presentation, issues with the SRS may be 
discovered and subsequently fixed by Brooks MacLachlan.

\subsection{Design Verification Plan}

\noindent The design of SSP is outlined in the Module Guide (MG) and Module 
Interface Specification (MIS) documents. The design will be verified by review 
of these documents. Brooks MacLachlan will extensively review both documents. 
Any issues identified during these reviews will be fixed immediately by Brooks 
MacLachlan. Dr. Spencer Smith will also review both documents. An additional 
review will be conducted by students in CAS 741: Karol Sekis for the MG and 
Malavika Srinivasan for the MIS. Any issues identified by these reviews will be 
recorded through the issue tracker on GitHub, and addressed by Brooks 
MacLachlan. Brooks MacLachlan will also informally present the MG to the entire 
class of CAS 741. During this presentation, design issues may be discovered and 
subsequently fixed by Brooks MacLachlan.

\subsection{Implementation Verification Plan} \label{sec_ImpPlan}

\noindent The implementation of SSP will be verified by review and by testing. 
Brooks MacLachlan will extensively review the implementation. Any issues 
identified during these reviews will be fixed immediately by Brooks 
MacLachlan. This review will be followed up by reviews by Dr. Spencer Smith and 
Robert White, a student in CAS 741. Any  issues identified by these reviews 
will be recorded through the issue tracker on GitHub, and addressed by Brooks 
MacLachlan. Brooks MacLachlan will also informally present the implementation 
to the entire class of CAS 741. During this presentation, issues with the 
implementation may be discovered and subsequently fixed by Brooks MacLachlan.
\newline

\noindent The implementation will also be verified by testing. Specific test 
cases are outlined in Section \ref{sec_System} of this document. Test cases 
that are directly dependent on implementation details are outlined in an 
accompanying document, the Unit VnV Plan. All tests will be written (where 
applicable), reviewed, executed, and reported on by Brooks MacLachlan.

\subsection{Software Validation Plan}

SSP will be validated by comparison of its output to results reported in 
literature for some example slope stability problems. These validation tests 
are further described in Section \ref{sec_System}.

\section{System Test Description} \label{sec_System}
	
\subsection{Tests for Functional Requirements}

\subsubsection{User Input Tests}
		
\paragraph{Valid User Input}

\begin{enumerate}[label=TC\arabic*:,ref={\arabic*}]

\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_ValidInDec}] 
test-valid\_input\_decreasing

Control: Automatic
					
Initial State: New session
					
Input: A valid input file with 2 slope layers, no water table, and y-values 
decreasing as x-values increase
					
Output: No errors

How test will be performed: Automated integration test
					
\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_ValidInInc}] 
test-valid\_input\_increasing

Control: Automatic

Initial State: New session

Input: A valid input file with 2 slope layers, no water table, and y-values 
increasing as x-values increase

Output: No errors

How test will be performed: Automated integration test

\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_ValidInOne}] 
test-valid\_input\_single

Control: Automatic

Initial State: New session

Input: A valid input file with 1 slope layer and no water table
Output: No errors

How test will be performed: Automated integration test

\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_ValidInWT}] 
test-valid\_input\_watertable

Control: Automatic

Initial State: New session

Input: A valid input file with 2 slope layers, and a water table

Output: No errors

How test will be performed: Automated integration test

\end{enumerate}

\paragraph{Invalid User Input}

\begin{enumerate}[label=TC\arabic*:,ref={\arabic*}]
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_InvalidInDecInc}] 
	test-valid\_input\_decreasing\_increasing
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input file where a slope layer's y-values start by decreasing with 
	increasing x but then start to increase
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_InvalidInIncDec}] 
	test-valid\_input\_increasing\_decreasing
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input file where a slope layer's y-values start by increasing with 
	increasing x but then start to decrease
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: 
	\label{TC_InvalidInDiffStart}] 
	test-valid\_input\_diff\_start
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input file with 2 slope layers with different initial x-values
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: \label{TC_InvalidInDiffEnd}] 
	test-valid\_input\_diff\_end
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input file with 2 slope layers with different final x-values
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: 
	\label{TC_InvalidInDiffStartWT}] 
	test-valid\_input\_diff\_start\_wt
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input with a water table with a different initial x-value than the 
	slope layers
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
	\item [TC\refstepcounter{testnum}\thetestnum: 
	\label{TC_InvalidInDiffEndWT}] 
	test-valid\_input\_diff\_end\_wt
	
	Control: Automatic
	
	Initial State: New session
	
	Input: Input with a water table with a different final x-value than the 
	slope layers
	
	Output: Error
	
	How test will be performed: Automated integration test
	
\end{enumerate}

\subsubsection{Calculation Tests}

\subsubsection{Output Tests}

\subsection{Tests for Nonfunctional Requirements}

\subsubsection{Correctness tests}
		
\paragraph{Title for Test}

\begin{enumerate}

\item{test-id1\\}

Type: 
					
Initial State: 
					
Input/Condition: 
					
Output/Result: 
					
How test will be performed: 
					
\item{test-id2\\}

Type: Functional, Dynamic, Manual, Static etc.
					
Initial State: 
					
Input: 
					
Output: 
					
How test will be performed: 

\end{enumerate}

\subsubsection{Area of Testing2}

...

\subsection{Traceability Between Test Cases and Requirements}

\noindent The purpose of the traceability matrices is to provide easy 
references on which requirements are verified by which test cases, and which 
test cases need to be updated if a requirement changes.  If a requirement is 
changed, the items in the column of that requirement that are marked
with an ``X'' may have to be modified as well. 

\begin{table}[h!]
	\centering
	\begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
		\hline
		& \rref{SRS-R_Inputs}& \rref{SRS-R_KinAdm}& \rref{SRS-R_InitGen}& 
		\rref{SRS-R_FS}& \rref{SRS-R_Minimize} & \rref{SRS-R_VerifyOutput}& 
		\rref{SRS-R_CritGraph}& \rref{SRS-R_OutputFS}& 
		\rref{SRS-R_NormalGraph}& \rref{SRS-R_ShearGraph} \\
		\hline
		\tcref{TC_ValidInInc}       & & & & & & & & & & \\ \hline
		\hline
	\end{tabular}
	\caption{Traceability Matrix Showing the Connections Between Requirements 
	and Test Cases}
	\label{Table:T_trace}
\end{table}

\section{Static Verification Techniques} \label{sec_Static}

The reviews described in Section \ref{sec_ImpPlan} will employ the static 
verification techniques of code walkthroughs and code inspection to attempt to 
uncover issues with the implementation.
				
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}

\bibliography{SRS}

\newpage

\section{Appendix}

This is where you can place additional information.

\subsection{Symbolic Parameters}

The definition of the test cases will call for SYMBOLIC\_CONSTANTS.
Their values are defined in this section for easy maintenance.

\subsection{Usability Survey Questions?}

\wss{This is a section that would be appropriate for some projects.}

\end{document}